Hi everyone.
Today's Thursday, April 23rd, and this
is the Money Ball morning report. Charts
by TrendSpider. News by Benzinga Pro.
Gamma flows by Mentour Q.
And data analytics by the amazing
tradewave.ai.
Okay.
What do we got going on?
I know my my front pages have been sort
of in the grind and the blah blah blah,
but that's exactly what we're having.
Take a look at the daily chart.
Now, there
is a breakout coming.
But it's very likely to be a failed
breakout based on the speed of this
movement. Now,
when markets are behaving like markets,
they look like this.
And then they liquidate.
And then they build. And then they move
like this.
And then
they distribute to the north or
liquidate to the south if I'm using the
right lingo there.
But at the end of the day,
we're seeing
what we're supposed to be seeing. Very
big motion and now consolidation.
Consolidation happens. Normally, this
V-bounce action.
This is new environment V-bounce action.
And by new, I mean the last 10 years
we've seen a lot more V-bounces than we
we normally have.
So, let's go to the 30-minute of the
E-mini S&P.
Call wall 7200.
The big put wall 7000.
All right.
We are inside of value
and inside of range.
So, what's that tell us? Potential chop.
Momentum down. 200 moving up. Potential
chop.
50 flat. Potential chop.
Holding
inside of
yesterday's Globex candle
thereabouts.
Potential chop. Everything is telling us
we've got potential chop.
What are the most important candles?
Well, here we go.
This candlestick here, the highest
volume candlestick. I'm going to draw a
box around it.
Rut-roh. I don't have the top of it
there. Okay.
Let's do that.
That candlestick is very large. So,
we're going to draw the fib that we had
on it yesterday.
We're going to have a look.
Notice, whatever this news was,
boom, liquidated everybody.
And then they turned around and bought
it all back. Now, remember, what is the
most important technical indicator on
your chart?
Data analytics.
10,000s
of thousands of runs that we've done at
tradewave.ai,
it's the 200 simple moving average.
No ifs, ands, or buts. No close second.
It's trending up and you break it, you
look for support, watch the support
hold, begin to bounce, you know it's
going to recapture
that 200.
It recaptured it, lost the pivot, which
happens to be 7152,
and faded right back down. Broke it
again.
Where did it come into?
This line,
7125,
is the Globex of the prior day.
Always look to the left, folks. You know
the important candles. The Globex
candle, the 9:30 candle, the 3:30
candle. Yes, there are a bunch of other
candles in there for those of us that do
intraday trading, but the goal is to
give you the big picture of what is
happening. Notice the closing candle
yesterday.
See it right here?
Strong candle.
Lots of volume.
More volume than 9:30 open.
That should tell you something.
9:30 lower than the 3:30 and more volume
on the 3:30. Dips are buys.
Now, here's the rub. The dips could be
quite deep today simply because we are
in this sideways flow and we may very
well come into the gamma line.
So, what do we want to do? We want to
wait for the bounce into the last
30-minute trading of the trading day,
prior day,
and we position a short there. Now, some
of you are not going to have patience
for that.
Some of you are going to go, "I want to
take a long." And the market's going to
turn around and go down.
Some of you are going to go, "I want to
take a short." And you're going to
have 40 points
being underwater or whatever.
Right?
Just wait for it. Set the alert out
or set the trigger out and be about your
business.
If it triggers, great. If it doesn't,
onto the next day. But this, my friends,
is classic noise. And if it bounces up
and our 9:30 opens up around here,
it's going to be another mosh pit of a
trading day,
which I suspect, in all honesty.
Let's go to the NQ.
This one is performing a little bit
better. Hit the days. We're going to
see, let's get rid of all the lines so
we can go brand new.
We can see that we had 3 days of a
sideways pocket. We broke out. A lot of
people are thinking the semis are
running because of the mythos
anthropic
um
news
about the speed of the chip need and the
size and blah blah blah blah blah blah
blah. So,
this is what's going on in general, my
friends.
What we are still looking at
is a move that's very steep.
And we are very far from our 50.
And far from our 200. Now, we spend a
lot of time being far from the 200.
And sometimes we spend
a lot of times being far from the 50.
But
they will revert.
So, let's take a look. Very big
candlestick. Largest candlestick of
prior days.
Um yeah, is that it?
Which one is it?
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah.
This large candlestick.
Not nearly as important in the NQ as the
ES unless you're building Fibonacci.
And so, here's our Fibonacci.
Right?
Right up on the edge, our
uh
our pivot looking right there.
You know, we don't need this fib
cuz we've got
our pivots and our gamma flows. So,
let's do the call walls and the put
walls.
27,400.
Um
that's the big That's a big gamma line
outside of space. But the call wall
24,150.
The put wall
25,000.
Bananas.
Yeah, they've built downside protection.
You can see that. Okay, let's look at
it. What is trend? Up.
What is momentum? Down.
So, if trend is up and momentum is down,
traders are trying to find support.
Looks like they have found support.
Momentum is still divergent. Gives us
very sideways pressure. Let's take a
look at the 9:30 candle
of yesterday.
Here we go.
High
26,000. Let's say 900.
Low
26,811.
So, now
this is the range that we are looking at
as the floor of support.
If it loses this,
we have a little bit of trouble.
But in the grand scheme of things,
the support floor that gives us a pretty
nice trade is down here at 26,800
to 26,790.
The 200 is moving up nicely.
The 50 is moving up nicely. If it breaks
the 200 and you're looking for a long,
step aside. Look to the left.
And wait for the floor to be
established.
Then you can take your trade.
Okay? I don't know what this news was.
Whatever it was, it came down, did not
break the 9:30 low.
Bounced right back up.
Upward sloping 50. Upward sloping 200.
Came right back down and tested it. Look
at the high.
9:30 candle. Okay? Our Globex event,
which was important in
the ES,
is going to be important in the NQ for
the resistance bounce.
Our 3:30 close,
3:30 Eastern time close, holds our
Globex box, our Globex candle. So, all
the way up to 27,100,
we could see today again.
Which would bring us into
a little bit of a short, not as strong
as the ES. This is very bullish in
general. Dips are buys. If we see a big
long wick,
look to the left.
We're outside of value,
but inside of general range and building
a formation. We're still inside of
yesterday's range.
We're still inside of yesterday's range
with all of this motion.
Still inside the range, so wait for the
edges, just like Hook says. Wait for the
edges to make a decision.
All right, where could we move to the
upside? 27,150
27,255
to the downside
27,000
575 27,550
27,500.
I don't see that today. But you never
know.
You never know. Deep dips
going to be very, very important to pick
up, but they might not be that deep.
The NQ and the ES are very divergent.
Money flows.
As you know,
Bitcoin is the place to see where
liquidity is on the rise.
It's broken out several times. It's
broken out of the 76,000 area. Super
important. It moved from 75,000
to 76,000 as most important.
Now,
we are really trying to get up and over
78,000. A lot of Bitcoiners banging
their drums going, "It's time. It's the
rally cry."
And it could be.
Low volume node
right here at 79,690.
Call wall 81,000.
Could we go up there, fill the gap, and
then break again?
Yes.
Does it look like momentum is building?
It does. However,
as with everything that's showing heavy
momentum, it is the speed at which we
are moving that we want to be careful
about.
Hence,
a blow-off top that gives us a fake.
This is what I am thinking. So,
now it could certainly rise over the
long haul into the future,
but you don't need to be holding it for
a hot minute. All right? So, my thought
is if you're trying to buy some Bitcoin
to hold it for later
See, I said the word hold it. I could do
it.
I'm not no lady.
Yeah, you are.
Okay. So, moving on. 65,000 would be
fantastic
if we came back and pulled into that
area. Not sure if we can do it.
I'm suspect here. Intraday trading, we
could probably get some things done. If
you look at the 30 minute, where's our
big volume candle?
I've read a very interesting article
about Jane Street.
Got a bunch of guys over there that just
love gaming the system. They're going to
get put out of business.
You can't game it so overtly that
everyone sees what you're doing. You got
to game it on the sneak.
And Jane Street are
very greedy people.
Very, very greedy. Look at this 4:00
p.m. candle.
Very interesting.
All right, friends. We are battling
the 1:00 a.m.
low
of yesterday.
Notice that big 8:00 flush that
everybody had, it came into that 1:00
a.m. high volume candle. That's why you
look at volume. Listen, I am a volume
convert.
I never used to look at volume.
Data
all the data say, "You better look at
volume. You better look at it."
So, here we go.
What's trend here?
It's down.
What is the slope of the moving
averages? Up to flat.
We just lost the pivot. We're still
dancing around this area. Bounces are
likely to be sell zones. So, I am
suspecting that as long as we do not
breach
Mhm.
This one's sticky.
As long as we do not breach
79,000,
this is a short. We can come all the way
up to it. That would make a great short,
frankly, if it came up there because
your stop would be very cheap, maybe a
thousand dollars wide.
And you know in micro Bitcoin, that's
that's not a lot.
Beautiful.
Right? Not even that. It's like $300
wide. So, that would be absolutely
outstanding if it did that. And then we
rotate back down to our 76
thousand and then that gives us another
long. So, that's my take on Bitcoin. We
got to wait for the edges.
Oil.
Well, apparently the straits closed
again. Okay. So,
you know, here here's the thing.
Come rain or shine,
everybody who has a job
has to look out the window and go,
"I guess I got to go out there. I better
put on a jacket."
You don't sit around and go,
>> [gasps]
>> "What's going to happen?" No. You have
an organization, an institution, a
company, whatever. You're planning.
You're saying, "Okay, let's let's see.
If this happens, this happens. If that
happens, this happens." If you don't
plan, you run the existential risk of
not even having a business anymore.
Hence, there's a lot of big planning.
Right? So, what are we staring down with
the oil? Giant mosh pit.
I still think it comes in and lollygags
around 85 here. It might come into 80
and fill in the gap.
But in grand fashion,
I think this is where this this thing
sits. Right now, there's a lot of
speculation in oil. Speed of motion is
where you can see the retracement action
and the actual volatility of oil
has remarkably expanded. The biggest
volume candle
is
this one right here
on March the 10th.
And we came in. We lost about half the
size of that candle, looks like. Let's
do a Fibonacci.
Right? Little more than half.
And then recovered it on the same day.
So now, we're headed here.
Probably back up to the 100 mark.
This is my suspicion. However, these big
wicks up here tell us that sellers are
waiting upside. Could this be building
the infamous head and shoulders pattern?
Sure.
I don't trade those. But yeah, sure. And
if it does,
let's measure the neckline. 81
84 to
120.
What is that? 40 Let's just say it's 40
bucks. Right?
That sends us back to $44.
If it's a measured move.
Now,
I don't think it's a measured move, but
somebody could say, "Well, that one
isn't, but this one might be right
here." And that move is 97
to 117. So, 20 bucks. 97 77
almost straight there.
So, 76 77 would be the measured move off
of this tiny little
head and shoulders pattern. Right? But
see, there's so much interpretation
here. How how can you do that? Just look
at the lines.
I mean, too too much interpretation,
you know.
That's That's why we got 5,200 different
versions of the Bible.
Too many people trying to say what they
think the Bible is saying.
All right. So,
momentum down
trend up.
That means they're hunting for some sort
of support and I still believe it is
right around this area. Let's go to the
30 minute. Golly, have I been talking a
long time?
Feels like it. Okay.
Good night. Look at the volume.
This is more than
during the normal trading day.
Good night.
Okay.
But something dreadful must have
happened. Somebody fired on something.
I have news fatigue. Literally, I do.
I'm scanning and of course, you know, I
can't do anything. So, I'm doing is
praying, which is all I can do.
So,
here we are sitting in this space and
if we do Fibonacci, you can we can see
that we've lost half of it already.
We just failed it there. Let me reverse
this one. Properties.
Reverse.
So, we can see what goes on in the
bottom. That's a pivot, the test of 91.
And then 90
and then the 200 where we've got a big
pocket of noise and the gamma line,
which is around 89. All right. So, what
are we staring down? This side wave
pressure. I mean, we're on top of the
VWAP, but this is very noisy. It's very
noisy pocket. The next important line
in oil
is going to be the highest volume candle
there. And then of course, you know, it
means we're dancing around these guys.
So, everybody is reversing it we're
everybody's agreed. Hey, let's go
revisit the old levels. So,
probably going to break trend. Probably
going to break this trend line here
and head down into this patch where all
the lines
have been drawn.
Do I want to take a long or a short?
I don't think I'm going to touch oil
today. Right?
I I I don't
It's Yeah, this one
no clean measures. Now, if it comes all
the way down here
into 89, you betcha I'm going to buy
some.
Otherwise, no cigar.
All right.
Gold
had a nice bounce off of my 4685 number.
Really pretty.
Just so happy about that.
And it's continuing its fate. I already
told you why.
They are selling their debt for dollars.
Other sovereign nations, they're selling
their debt for dollars.
So, dollars are getting tight. When
dollars get tight, the dollar moves up.
When the dollar moves up, gold moves
down. Now, it's not an exact correlation
because on top of that these folks who
are selling their sovereign uh currency
for
US currency, they're also selling their
gold
to pay their bills
because things are getting very bad on
the eastern side of the world. It is not
pretty, especially the third world side
of the world. So, yes, they're going to
liquidate some of their gold because
they have to.
Now, when things get right and things
get better, they're going to start
buying again. But right now, we're
between the 50 and the 200. We know
what's going on systemically.
And so, our bounces are still going to
be sell zones.
put wall is
4670.
No, 40 Yeah, 4670 4620.
Probably the next line. I would not
[clears throat] be surprised if we get
back into value area and hit the 200.
Just going to grind on in there and see
what's happening.
Okay, let's take a look at our
30-minute.
What's the trend? What's the 200? It's
down.
So, trend is down. What's the 50? It's
down. What's the VWOAP? It's down.
All of these things are telling us we
have downside pressure.
Let's draw Fibonacci off the largest
candlestick that we can see over prior
days. We can see them trying to dance
through this line at 4715
trying to hold it.
Now, you know, I don't like to sell the
lows of anything or buy the highs of
anything.
So,
I would love to see a big fat bounce
into 4740
or so
and then I'll consider a short.
This is my thought.
If it moves up through 4740
and it doesn't come back down
we've got the pivot.
We've got
uh
That is Oh, we're in negative gamma
here. Okay, so we have the gamma line,
we have the anchored VWOAP, that's 4767,
and then all the way up here at the 200.
It could bounce.
It could be a beautiful long into the
200 and then another short.
So, definitely most definitely the trade
is in either direction. I'm going to try
it here first. If it stops me out I'm
going to let it stop me out quickly.
Three, four points.
If that happens I'm going to wait for it
to resolve. If it loses the edge, I'm in
good shape
for more shorting or if it holds the
edge
I'm going to try and hold it until it
gets to the 200. Right now, they're on
the bounce. Notice
that's this ledge here
off of the 50% 1.5 area of the very
large volume zone. So, this is what
we're staring down. The bounce action
into
4740.
Let's take a look at spy.
Now, she spends 300 years talking about
the charts. Good heavens.
All right.
Here we go.
Same story, different channel.
Sideways motion bullish pressure from
4:00 a.m. Caught in the range of the
very long day.
Gamma flow is positive.
702 is the base. I would not be
surprised
to have a little rush down shake the
trees. Everybody flipping out and then
they turn around and drive it right back
up. Put wall 700.
We're sitting right on the call wall at
710.
How to trade the spy?
Well, dips are buys.
Could the dips be deeper? Yes. What's
the highest volume candlestick to watch?
That would be the one two days ago.
Right? If I hide
my pivots
we can easily see this formation.
So, we're trying to battle it.
Now, a lot of times people can see these
and they go, "Oh, yes, it's broken. I'm
going short."
Or they go, "Oh, yes, it's
it's holding. I'm going long."
And what
they fail to take into consideration is
that
resolution around price action takes a
long time.
What are you waiting for? You're waiting
for them to decide what to do.
And then here comes a news bomb.
And flush everybody out and then you're
too timid to go back in or you've blown
your account. Whichever. Right?
It takes time. If you're trading around
this here please remember
easily things can come in that can shake
the trees.
Keep your stop steady. Keep it tight.
You get stopped out. You can try again.
Just cuz something's broken doesn't mean
it won't be retraced.
Take a look at trend and momentum to
tell you what it is that you need to do.
Okay?
All right. Should be fill the gap here.
Yes, anchored VWOAP from the close 710.
Pullbacks are buy zones.
I would love to see another test of 704.
Actually, I'd love to see a test of 702.
And that would make for a nice long.
This is in mean reversion.
So, it's very likely going to pull into
this. It's got nothing to do with
monster action. Listen, we could have
some news, it could come in and just
throw everything
to the wolves.
Doesn't matter. You're following the
trend. If the trend is up and news comes
and breaks it you get out and wait for
them to find the dip. The market is
naturally long.
It's not naturally short.
So, they're going to find places to buy.
Okay? All right, that's it for me.
I'll see you on the streams. Take care,
everybody.